Add documentation for OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout (#2502)
wso2/docs-is: en/docs/learn/configuring-oidc-federated-idp-initiated-logout.md

# Configuring OIDC Federated IdP Initiated Logout

> WSO2 Identity Server (WSO2 IS) supports handling logout requests from OIDC federated identity providers. When the OIDC

Reviewer: Metion what are the OIDC  logout mechanisms and point to out logout doc. and mention what is used here

logout request is received by the federated identity provider, WSO2 IS processes the request, terminates the sessions
and then responds to the identity provider.

## Scenario

> The diagram below illustrates the OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout scenario. WSO2 IS, Application 2 are

Reviewer: Have it as **Application2**

configured as service providers in the OIDC provider. OIDC provider is configured as an identity provider and

> Application 1 is configured as a service provider in the WSO2 IS. When the user initiates the logout from Application 2,

Reviewer: **Application1**

first the federated OIDC provider handles the request and propagates the logout request to WSO2 IS. After receiving the
logout request from the federated identity provider, WSO2 IS processes the request and terminates the sessions and sends
back a valid logout response. User is logged out from the Application 1.

![oidc-fed-idp-init-logout-scenario](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-fed-idp-init-logout-scenario.png)

## Trying out the flow with WSO2 Identity Server

To demonstrate the OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout, this tutorial uses two WSO2 identity servers which

> are running on port 9443 (Primary IS) and 9444 (Secondary IS), and two sample web applications, “Pickup-Dispatch” and

Reviewer 2: Boldify sample application names wherever applicable.

> “Pickup-Manager”. In this scenario Secondary IS acts as a federated OIDC identity provider and “Pickup-Dispatch” and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Pickup-Manager**. In this scenario, the Secondary IS acts as a federated OIDC identity provider and **Pickup-Dispatch** and
```

> “Pickup-Manager” acts as Application 1 and Application 2 respectively. Following section provides a guide for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Pickup-Manager** act as **Application 1** and **Application 2** respectively. The following section provides a guide for
```

configuring the OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout and trying it out with the sample applications.

> 1. Configure Primary IS as a Service Provider in the Secondary IS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Configure Primary IS as a service provider in the Secondary IS
```

> 2. Configuring Secondary IS as an Identity Provider in the Primary IS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Configure Secondary IS as an identity provider in Primary IS
```

> 3. Configuring Pickup Dispatch application in the Primary IS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Configure Pickup Dispatch in Primary IS
```

> 4. Configuring Pickup Manager application in the Secondary IS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Configure Pickup Manager in the Secondary IS
```

!!! note

>       Since there can be issues with cookies due to same hostname in both WSO2 identity servers, follow the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Since there can be issues with cookies due to same hostname in both WSO2 identity servers, follow
```

>       https://is.docs.wso2.com/en/latest/setup/changing-the-hostname guide to change the hostname of the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      (../../setup/changing-the-hostname) to change the hostname of the 
```

>       Secondary IS. In this guide hostname of the SecondaryIS is configured as “localhost.com”.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Secondary IS. In this guide, the hostname of SecondaryIS is configured as `localhost.com`.
```

### Configure Primary IS as a Service Provider in the Secondary IS

> 1. Run the WSO2 Identity Server on port 9444 (Secondary IS).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run WSO2 Identity Server on port 9444 (Secondary IS).
```

2. Log in to the management console as an administrator using the admin,admin credentials.
3. Navigate to **Main** to access the **Identity** menu.
4. Click **Add** under **Service Providers**.
5. Fill in the details in the **Basic Information** section. Give a suitable name for the Service Provider like
   “PrimaryIS” and click **Register**.
6. Expand the **OAuth2/OpenID Connect Configuration** section under the **Inbound Authentication Configuration** section
   and click **Configure**.
7. Add `https://localhost:9443/commonauth` as **Callback Url**.

   ![oidc-federated-idp-config](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-federated-idp-config.png)

8. Tick the **Enable OIDC Back-channel Logout** checkbox and add `https://localhost:9443/identity/oidc/slo` as
   **Back-channel Logout Url**.

   ![oidc-back-channel-logout-url](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-back-channel-logout-url.png)

> 9. Click the **Add** button. Note the generated OAuth Client Key and Secret.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. Click **Add**. Note the generated OAuth Client Key and Secret.
```

### Configuring Secondary IS as an Identity Provider in the Primary IS

> 1. Run the WSO2 Identity Server on port 9443 (Primary IS).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run WSO2 Identity Server on port 9443 (Primary IS).
```

2. Log in to the management console as an administrator using the admin,admin credentials.
3. Navigate to **Main** to access the **Identity** menu.
4. Click **Add** under **Identity Providers**.
5. Fill in the details in the **Basic Information** section. Give a suitable name for the Identity Provider.
6. Expand the **OAuth2/OpenID Connect Configuration** section under **Federated Authenticators** section.
7. Fill the fields as follows.

> Here client id and secret is the Oauth Client Key and Secret generated in the above step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here the client id and secret is the Oauth Client Key and Secret generated in the above step.
```

> - Authorization Endpoint URL - https://localhost.com:9444/oauth2/authorize

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Authorization Endpoint URL - `https://localhost.com:9444/oauth2/authorize`
```

Reviewer 2: Include quotes for all local host links to make them un-clickable.

- Token Endpoint URL - https://localhost.com:9444/oauth2/token
- Callback Url - https://localhost.com>:9443/commonauth
- Userinfo Endpoint URL - https://localhost.com:9444/oauth2/userinfo
- Logout Endpoint URL - https://localhost.com:9444/oidc/logout

> Add `scope=openid` in the **Additional Query Parameters**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add `scope=openid` in **Additional Query Parameters**.
```

![oidc-fed-idp-config-in-primary-idp](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-fed-idp-config-in-primary-idp.png)

> 8. Signature of the logout token is validated using either, using registered JWKS uri or uploaded certificate to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Signature of the logout token is validated using either the registered JWKS uri or uploaded certificate to the
```

   relevant identity provider.

>    - Under the **Basic Information** section select the **Use IDP JWKS endpoint** option from **Choose IDP certificate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Under the **Basic Information** section, select the **Use IDP JWKS endpoint** option from **Choose IDP certificate
```

     type** and add the JWKS uri
     `https://localhost.com:9444/oauth2/jwks` to Identity Provider's JWKS Endpoint.
     ![oidc-primary-idp-certificate-config](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-primary-idp-certificate-config.png)

    - Alternatively, select the **Upload IDP certificate** option from **Choose IDP certificate type** and upload the
      certificate of the SecondaryIS.
      ![oidc-primary-idp-jwks-uri-config](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-primary-idp-jwks-uri-config.png)

9. Click **Register**.

### Configuring Pickup Dispatch application in the Primary IS

1. Follow the steps
   in [Deploying the pickup-dispatch webapp](https://is.docs.wso2.com/en/latest/learn/deploying-the-sample-app/#deploying-the-pickup-dispatch-webapp)
   to download, deploy and register the **Pickup-Dispatch** sample.

> 2. Once you have added the OIDC service provider, go to the **Service Provider Configuration** and expand **Local &

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Once you have added the OIDC service provider, go to **Service Provider Configuration** and expand **Local &
```

   Outbound Authentication Configuration**.

> 3. Select **Federated Authentication** and from the dropdown menu select the **SecondaryIS**. Click **Update**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Select **Federated Authentication** and from the dropdown menu select **SecondaryIS**. Click **Update**.
```

   ![oidc-service-provider-federated-authentication](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-service-provider-federated-authentication.png)

### Configuring Pickup Manager application in the Secondary IS

Follow the steps
in [Deploying the pickup-manager webapp](https://is.docs.wso2.com/en/latest/learn/deploying-the-sample-app/#deploying-the-pickup-manager-webapp)
to download, deploy and register the Pickup-Manager sample.

## OIDC Back-channel Logout Token Validation

> 

Reviewer: can we have a sample of the logout token here and also links it to back-channel logout doc?

Logout token validation is done according to
the [OIDC back-channel logout specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-backchannel-1_0.html#Validation)
for the token signature and
`iss`, `aud`, `iat`, `sub`, `sid`, `events` and `nonce` claims.

### Configure “iat” claim validation

> To disable or change the “iat” claim validation, following configuration needs to be added into the **deployment. toml**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To disable or change the “iat” claim validation, the following configuration needs to be added to the **deployment.toml**
```

> file in <PRIMARY_IS_HOME>/repository/resources/conf/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
file in `<PRIMARY_IS_HOME>/repository/resources/conf/`.
```

## Identifying Session Using ‘sub’ or ‘sid’ Claim

- Logout token should contain a `sub` claim, `sid` claim or both.
- If the logout token contains an `sid` claim, IS will terminate the particular session of the user using the `sid`
  claim.
- If the logout token only contains a `sub` claim, IS will terminate all the session for that “sub” claim value

## Try it out!

Once you have completed configuring WSO2 IS as instructed in the above sections, try out the flow by running the sample
applications.

1. Access the following URL on a browser
   window, [http://localhost.com:8080/pickup-dispatch/](http://localhost.com:8080/pickup-dispatch/)
2. Click Login. You will be redirected to the WSO2 Identity Server login page (PrimaryIS - port 9443).
3. Log in using your WSO2 Identity Server credentials. You will be redirected to the Pickup Dispatch application home
   page.
4. Now access the following URL on another browser window to access the Pickup Manager application, which is registered
   in the federated identity
   provider: [http://localhost.com:8080/pickup-manager/](http://localhost.com:8080/pickup-manager/).
   

> 5. Once you click Login, you will be automatically logged in and redirected to the Pickup Manager application home 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Once you click **Login**, you will be automatically logged in and redirected to the **Pickup Manager** application home 
```

   page. 
   
6. Log out of the Pickup Manager application. You will be redirected back to the login page of the application. 
   
7. Now attempt to access the Pickup Dispatch application. You will be automatically logged out of this application as
   well.

> This means that you have successfully configured OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means that you have successfully configured an OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout.
```

# Configuring OIDC Federated IdP Initiated Logout

> WSO2 Identity Server (WSO2 IS) supports handling logout requests from OIDC federated identity providers. When an OIDC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WSO2 Identity Server (WSO2 IS) supports handling OIDC back-channel logout requests from OIDC federated identity providers. 
```

> WSO2 Identity Server (WSO2 IS) supports handling logout requests from OIDC federated identity providers. When an OIDC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WSO2 Identity Server (WSO2 IS) supports handling andling OIDC back-channel logout logout requests from OIDC federated identity providers. When an OIDC
```

> logout request is received by the OIDC federated identity provider, WSO2 IS processes the request, terminates the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
logout request is received from the OIDC federated identity provider to the back-channel logout endpoint of WSO2 IS (https://<hostname>:<port>/identity/oidc/slo), WSO2 IS processes the request, terminates the
```

> sessions and then responds to the identity provider.

Reviewer: Mention it is using OIDC backchannel logout and link to it doc here

## Scenario

The diagram below illustrates the OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout scenario. **WSO2 IS** and

> **Application 2** are configured as service providers in the **OIDC provider**. **OIDC provider** is configured as an

Reviewer: fix it as *Application2* and *Application1*. fix  in other places as well

identity provider, and **Application 1** is configured as a service provider in the **WSO2 IS**. When the user initiates
the logout from **Application 2**, first the federated **OIDC provider** handles the request and propagates the logout
request to **WSO2 IS**. After receiving the logout request from the federated identity provider, **WSO2 IS** processes

> the request and terminates the sessions and sends back a valid logout response. User is logged out from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the request and terminates the sessions and sends back a logout response. User is logged out from the
```

Reviewer: Add the below to a note section

> If logout is successful in WSO2IS, it will respond with 200 OK. If there are any server-side errors or client errors(Eg: claim validation fails), it will respond with Bad request.

_

**Application 1**.

![oidc-fed-idp-init-logout-scenario](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-fed-idp-init-logout-scenario.png)

## Trying out the flow with WSO2 Identity Server

To demonstrate the OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout, this tutorial uses two WSO2 identity servers which
that run on ports, 9443 (Primary IS) and 9444 (Secondary IS), and two sample web applications, **Pickup-Dispatch** and
**Pickup-Manager**. In this scenario Secondary IS acts as a federated OIDC identity provider and **Pickup-Dispatch** and

> **Pickup-Manager** act as **Application 1** and **Application 2** respectively. The following section provides a guide

Reviewer: fix **Application 1** and **Application 2**

for configuring the OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout and trying it out with the sample applications.

1. Configure Primary IS as a service provider in the Secondary IS
2. Configure Secondary IS as an identity provider in the Primary IS
3. Configure Pickup Dispatch in Primary IS
4. Configure Pickup Manager in Secondary IS

!!! note

>       Since there can be issues with cookies due to same hostname in both WSO2 identity servers, follow 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Since there can be issues with cookies when the same hostname is configured both WSO2 identity servers (primary and federated), you need to configure different hostname for both servers.. Follow
```

   "iat": 1609911868,
   "exp": 1609911988,
   "jti": "16159e3e-c5fc-42de-b93f-b0782ab33d58",
   "sid": "15043ffc-877d-4205-af41-9b107f7da38c",
   "events": {
     "http://schemas.openid.net/event/backchannel-logout": {}
     }
```

Logout token validation is done according to
the [OIDC back-channel logout specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-backchannel-1_0.html#Validation)
for the token signature and
`iss`, `aud`, `iat`, `sub`, `sid`, `events` and `nonce` claims.

Refer [OIDC Back-channel logout](../../learn/openid-connect-single-logout/#oidc-back-channel-logout) for more
information on OIDC back-channel logout.

### Configure “iat” claim validation

To disable or change the “iat” claim validation, the following configuration needs to be added to the **deployment.
toml**
file in `<PRIMARY_IS_HOME>/repository/resources/conf/`

``` 
[authentication.authenticator.oidc.parameters] 
enableIatValidation = true 
iatValidityPeriod = "150" 
```

- `iatValidityPeriod` should be in seconds.

- If the `iat` claim validation is enabled in the PrimaryIS, the token shouldn’t be issued before the specified time.

## Identifying Session Using ‘sub’ or ‘sid’ Claim

> - Logout token should contain a `sub` claim, `sid` claim or both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Logout token should contain a `sub` claim,  a `sid` claim, or both.
```

> - If the logout token contains an `sid` claim, IS will terminate the particular session of the user using the `sid`

Reviewer: Mention that  sid  in Logout Token should matches the sid Claim in an ID Token issued for the current session

# Configuring OIDC Federated IdP Initiated Logout

WSO2 Identity Server (WSO2 IS) supports handling logout requests from OIDC federated identity providers. When an OIDC
back-channel logout request is received from the OIDC federated identity provider to the back-channel logout endpoint of

> WSO2 IS (`https://<hostname>:<port>/identity/oidc/slo`), WSO2 IS processes the request, terminates the sessions and then

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
WSO2 IS (`https://<hostname>:<port>/identity/oidc/slo`), WSO2 IS processes the request, terminates the sessions, and then
```

responds to the identity provider.

Refer [OIDC Back-channel logout](../../learn/openid-connect-single-logout/#oidc-back-channel-logout) for more

> information on OIDC back-channel logout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
information.
```

## Scenario

The diagram below illustrates the OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout scenario. **WSO2 IS** and
**Application2** are configured as service providers in the **OIDC provider**. **OIDC provider** is configured as an

> identity provider, and **Application1** is configured as a service provider in the **WSO2 IS**. When the user initiates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
identity provider, and **Application1** is configured as a service provider in **WSO2 IS**. When the user initiates
```

the logout from **Application2**, first the federated **OIDC provider** handles the request and propagates the logout
request to **WSO2 IS**. After receiving the logout request from the federated identity provider, **WSO2 IS** processes
the request and terminates the session and sends back a logout response to the OIDC provider. Once the session is
terminated on WSO2 IS side, it will propagate the logout request to all the connected Relying Parties. User is logged
out from the **Application1**.

!!! note

>     If logout is successful in WSO2 IS, it will respond with 200 OK. If there are any server-side errors or client 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If logout is successful in WSO2 IS, it will respond with `200 OK`. If there are any server-side errors or client 
```

>     errors(Eg: claim validation fails), it will respond with Bad Request or Internal Server Error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    errors(Eg: claim validation fails), it will respond with `Bad Request` or `Internal Server Error`.
```

that run on ports, 9443 (Primary IS) and 9444 (Secondary IS), and two sample web applications, **Pickup-Dispatch** and
**Pickup-Manager**. In this scenario Secondary IS acts as a federated OIDC identity provider and **Pickup-Dispatch** and
**Pickup-Manager** act as **Application1** and **Application2** respectively. The following section provides a guide for
configuring the OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout and trying it out with the sample applications.

1. Configure Primary IS as a service provider in the Secondary IS
2. Configure Secondary IS as an identity provider in the Primary IS
3. Configure Pickup Dispatch in Primary IS
4. Configure Pickup Manager in Secondary IS

!!! note

    Since there can be issues with cookies when the same hostname is configured for both WSO2 identity servers 
    (primary and federated), you need to configure different hostnames for both servers. 
    Follow [Change hostname of the WSO2 IS](../../setup/changing-the-hostname) guide to change the hostname of the 
    Secondary IS. In this guide, the hostname of the Secondary IS is configured as `localhost.com`.

> ### Configure Primary IS as a Service Provider in the Secondary IS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configuring Primary IS as a Service Provider in the Secondary IS
```

     certificate of the SecondaryIS.
    ![oidc-primary-idp-certificate-config](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-primary-idp-certificate-config.png)
     

9. Click **Register**.

### Configuring Pickup Dispatch application in the Primary IS

1. Follow the steps
   in [Deploying the pickup-dispatch webapp](https://is.docs.wso2.com/en/latest/learn/deploying-the-sample-app/#deploying-the-pickup-dispatch-webapp)
   to download, deploy and register the **Pickup-Dispatch** sample.
2. Once you have added the OIDC service provider, go to **Service Provider Configuration** and expand **Local & Outbound
   Authentication Configuration**.
3. Select **Federated Authentication** and from the dropdown menu select **SecondaryIS**. Click **Update**.

   ![oidc-service-provider-federated-authentication](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-service-provider-federated-authentication.png)

### Configuring Pickup Manager application in the Secondary IS

Follow the steps
in [Deploying the pickup-manager webapp](https://is.docs.wso2.com/en/latest/learn/deploying-the-sample-app/#deploying-the-pickup-manager-webapp)

> to download, deploy and register the Pickup-Manager sample.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to download, deploy, and register the Pickup-Manager sample.
```

## OIDC Back-channel Logout Token Validation

The following is an example OIDC back-channel logout token.

```
   {
   "iss": "https://localhost.com:9444/oauth2/token",
   "sub": "admin",
   "aud": "w_Hwp05dFRwcRs_WFHv9SNwpflAa",
   "iat": 1609911868,
   "exp": 1609911988,
   "jti": "16159e3e-c5fc-42de-b93f-b0782ab33d58",
   "sid": "15043ffc-877d-4205-af41-9b107f7da38c",
   "events": {
     "http://schemas.openid.net/event/backchannel-logout": {}
     }
```

Logout token validation is done according to
the [OIDC back-channel logout specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-backchannel-1_0.html#Validation)

> for the token signature and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for the token signature and the
```

`iss`, `aud`, `iat`, `sub`, `sid`, `events` and `nonce` claims.

### Configure “iat” claim validation

> To disable or change the “iat” claim validation, the following configuration needs to be added to the **deployment.

Reviewer 2: `deployment.toml`

Reviewer: Add configuration separately to how to disable annd how to change the iat validation.

To disable it,
```authentication.authenticator.oidc.parameters] 
enableIatValidation = false ```

[authentication.authenticator.oidc.parameters] 
iatValidityPeriod = "150"

toml**
file in `<PRIMARY_IS_HOME>/repository/conf/`

``` 
[authentication.authenticator.oidc.parameters] 

> enableIatValidation = true 

Reviewer: Can we add configuration separately to how to disable and how to change the iat validation.

To disable it,

[authentication.authenticator.oidc.parameters] 
enableIatValidation = false 

[authentication.authenticator.oidc.parameters] 
iatValidityPeriod = "150" 
Also menntion that this is enabled by default and mwntion the default iatvalidation time period

applications.

1. Access the following URL on a browser
   window, [http://localhost.com:8080/pickup-dispatch/](http://localhost.com:8080/pickup-dispatch/)
2. Click Login. You will be redirected to the WSO2 Identity Server login page (SecondaryIS - port 9444).
3. Log in using your WSO2 Identity Server credentials. You will be redirected to the **Pickup Dispatch** application
   home page.
4. Now access the following URL on another browser window to access the **Pickup Manager** application, which is
   registered in the federated identity
   provider: [http://localhost.com:8080/pickup-manager/](http://localhost.com:8080/pickup-manager/).

5. Once you click **Login**, you will be automatically logged in and redirected to the **Pickup Manager** application
   home page.

6. Log out of the **Pickup Manager** application. You will be redirected back to the login page of the application.

7. Now attempt to access the **Pickup Dispatch** application. You will be automatically logged out of this application
   as well.

This means that you have successfully configured an OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout.

> 

Reviewer: remove new lines

# Configuring OIDC Federated IdP Initiated Logout

WSO2 Identity Server (WSO2 IS) supports handling logout requests from OIDC federated identity providers. When an OIDC
back-channel logout request is received from the OIDC federated identity provider to the back-channel logout endpoint of

> WSO2 IS (`https://<hostname>:<port>/identity/oidc/slo`), WSO2 IS processes the request, terminates the sessions, and

Reviewer 3: Can we explain which sessions are terminate here?

```
   {
   "iss": "https://localhost.com:9444/oauth2/token",
   "sub": "admin",
   "aud": "w_Hwp05dFRwcRs_WFHv9SNwpflAa",
   "iat": 1609911868,
   "exp": 1609911988,
   "jti": "16159e3e-c5fc-42de-b93f-b0782ab33d58",
   "sid": "15043ffc-877d-4205-af41-9b107f7da38c",
   "events": {
     "http://schemas.openid.net/event/backchannel-logout": {}
     }
```

Logout token validation is done according to
the [OIDC back-channel logout specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-backchannel-1_0.html#Validation)
for the token signature and the `iss`, `aud`, `iat`, `sub`, `sid`, `events` and `nonce` claims.

### Configure “iat” claim validation

By default, the "iat" claim validation is enabled and `iatValidityPeriod` is set as 300 seconds.

To change the “iat” claim validation, add the following configuration to the **deployment.toml** file in
`<PRIMARY_IS_HOME>/repository/conf/`

``` 
[authentication.authenticator.oidc.parameters] 
iatValidityPeriod = "150" 
```

To disable the “iat” claim validation, add the following configuration to the **deployment.toml** file.

```
[authentication.authenticator.oidc.parameters]
enableIatValidation = false
```

> 

Reviewer 4: better to mention to restart the server after adding the aforementioned configs

- `iatValidityPeriod` should be in seconds.

> - If the `iat` claim validation is enabled in the PrimaryIS, the token shouldn’t be issued before the specified time.

Reviewer 4: `PrimaryIS` -> `Primary IS`

> - If the `iat` claim validation is enabled in the PrimaryIS, the token shouldn’t be issued before the specified time.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- If the `iat` claim validation is enabled in the Primary IS, the token shouldn’t be issued before the specified time.
```

## Identifying Session Using sub or sid Claim

- Logout token should contain a `sub` claim, an `sid` claim, or both.
- If the logout token contains an `sid` claim, IS will terminate the particular session of the user using the `sid`
  claim. The `sid` claim in the logout token should match to the `sid` claim in the id token received for the current
  session.
- If the logout token only contains a `sub` claim, IS will terminate all the session for that `sub` claim.

> ## Try it out!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Try it out
```

the particular user, and then responds to the identity provider.

Refer [OIDC Back-channel logout](../../learn/openid-connect-single-logout/#oidc-back-channel-logout) for more
information.

## Scenario

The diagram below illustrates the OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout scenario. **WSO2 IS** and
**Application2** are configured as service providers in the **OIDC provider**. **OIDC provider** is configured as an
identity provider, and **Application1** is configured as a service provider in **WSO2 IS**. When the user initiates the
logout from **Application2**, first the federated **OIDC provider** handles the request and propagates the logout
request to **WSO2 IS**. After receiving the logout request from the federated identity provider, **WSO2 IS** processes
the request and terminates the session and sends back a logout response to the OIDC provider. Once the session is
terminated on WSO2 IS side, it will propagate the logout request to all the connected Relying Parties. User is logged
out from the **Application1**.

!!! note

    If logout is successful in WSO2 IS, it will respond with `200 OK`. If there are any server-side errors or client 

>     errors(Eg: claim validation fails), it will respond with `Bad Request` or `Internal Server Error`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    errors (e.g., claim validation fails), it will respond with `Bad Request` or `Internal Server Error`.
```

![oidc-fed-idp-init-logout-scenario](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-fed-idp-init-logout-scenario.png)

## Trying out the flow with WSO2 Identity Server

To demonstrate the OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout, this tutorial uses two WSO2 identity servers which

> that run on ports, 9443 (Primary IS) and 9444 (Secondary IS), and two sample web applications, **Pickup-Dispatch** and

Reviewer 4: remove `that`

> **Pickup-Manager**. In this scenario Secondary IS acts as a federated OIDC identity provider and **Pickup-Dispatch** and

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Pickup-Manager**. In this scenario, Secondary IS acts as a federated OIDC identity provider and **Pickup-Dispatch** and
```

> **Pickup-Manager** act as **Application1** and **Application2** respectively. The following section provides a guide for

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Pickup-Manager** acts as **Application1** and **Application2** respectively. The following section provides a guide for
```

configuring the OIDC federated identity provider initiated logout and trying it out with the sample applications.

1. Configure Primary IS as a service provider in the Secondary IS
2. Configure Secondary IS as an identity provider in the Primary IS
3. Configure Pickup Dispatch in Primary IS

> 4. Configure Pickup Manager in Secondary IS

Reviewer 4: end with fullstops.

!!! note

    Since there can be issues with cookies when the same hostname is configured for both WSO2 identity servers 
    (primary and federated), you need to configure different hostnames for both servers. 
    Follow [Change hostname of the WSO2 IS](../../setup/changing-the-hostname) guide to change the hostname of the 
    Secondary IS. In this guide, the hostname of the Secondary IS is configured as `localhost.com`.

> ### Configuring Primary IS as a Service Provider in the Secondary IS

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Configure Primary IS as a Service Provider in the Secondary IS
```

1. Run WSO2 Identity Server on port 9444 (Secondary IS).
2. Log in to the management console as an administrator using the admin, admin credentials.
3. Navigate to **Main** to access the **Identity** menu.
4. Click **Add** under **Service Providers**.
5. Fill in the details in the **Basic Information** section. Give a suitable name for the service provider like

>    “PrimaryIS” and click **Register**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   `PrimaryIS` and click **Register**.
```

6. Expand the **OAuth2/OpenID Connect Configuration** section under the **Inbound Authentication Configuration** section
   and click **Configure**.
7. Add `https://localhost:9443/commonauth` as **Callback Url**.

   ![oidc-federated-idp-config](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-federated-idp-config.png)

8. Tick the **Enable OIDC Back-channel Logout** checkbox and add `https://localhost:9443/identity/oidc/slo` as
   **Back-channel Logout Url**.

   ![oidc-back-channel-logout-url](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-back-channel-logout-url.png)

9. Click **Add**. Note the generated OAuth Client Key and Secret.

> ### Configuring Secondary IS as an Identity Provider in the Primary IS

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Configure Secondary IS as an Identity Provider in the Primary IS
```

    Add `scope=openid` in **Additional Query Parameters**.

    ![oidc-fed-idp-config-in-primary-idp](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-fed-idp-config-in-primary-idp.png)

8. Signature of the logout token is validated using either the registered JWKS uri or uploaded certificate to the
   relevant identity provider. 
   
    - Under the **Basic Information** section, select the **Use IDP JWKS endpoint** option from **Choose IDP certificate
     type** and add the JWKS uri
     `https://localhost.com:9444/oauth2/jwks` to Identity Provider's JWKS Endpoint.
    ![oidc-primary-idp-jwks-uri-config](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-primary-idp-jwks-uri-config.png)
      
    - Alternatively, select the **Upload IDP certificate** option from **Choose IDP certificate type** and upload the
     certificate of the SecondaryIS.
    ![oidc-primary-idp-certificate-config](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-primary-idp-certificate-config.png)
      
9. Add `https://localhost:9444/oauth2/token` as the **Identity Provider's Issuer Name**.
   
    ![oidc-backchannel-logout-issuer-name](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-backchannel-logout-issuer-name.png)

10. Click **Register**.

> ### Configuring Pickup Dispatch application in the Primary IS

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Configure Pickup Dispatch application in the Primary IS
```

1. Follow the steps
   in [Deploying the pickup-dispatch webapp](https://is.docs.wso2.com/en/latest/learn/deploying-the-sample-app/#deploying-the-pickup-dispatch-webapp)
   to download, deploy and register the **Pickup-Dispatch** sample.
2. Once you have added the OIDC service provider, go to **Service Provider Configuration** and expand **Local & Outbound
   Authentication Configuration**.

> 3. Select **Federated Authentication** and from the dropdown menu select **SecondaryIS**. Click **Update**.

Reviewer 4: Let's add `Click **Update**`  as step 4.

   ![oidc-service-provider-federated-authentication](../assets/img/tutorials/oidc-service-provider-federated-authentication.png)

> ### Configuring Pickup Manager application in the Secondary IS

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Configure Pickup Manager application in the Secondary IS
```

Follow the steps
in [Deploying the pickup-manager webapp](https://is.docs.wso2.com/en/latest/learn/deploying-the-sample-app/#deploying-the-pickup-manager-webapp)
to download, deploy, and register the Pickup-Manager sample.

## OIDC Back-channel Logout Token Validation

The following is an example OIDC back-channel logout token.

```
   {
   "iss": "https://localhost.com:9444/oauth2/token",
   "sub": "admin",
   "aud": "w_Hwp05dFRwcRs_WFHv9SNwpflAa",
   "iat": 1609911868,
   "exp": 1609911988,
   "jti": "16159e3e-c5fc-42de-b93f-b0782ab33d58",
   "sid": "15043ffc-877d-4205-af41-9b107f7da38c",
   "events": {
     "http://schemas.openid.net/event/backchannel-logout": {}
     }
```

Logout token validation is done according to
the [OIDC back-channel logout specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-backchannel-1_0.html#Validation)
for the token signature and the `iss`, `aud`, `iat`, `sub`, `sid`, `events` and `nonce` claims.

### Configure “iat” claim validation

By default, the "iat" claim validation is enabled and `iatValidityPeriod` is set as 300 seconds.

To change the “iat” claim validation, add the following configuration to the **deployment.toml** file in

> `<PRIMARY_IS_HOME>/repository/conf/`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`<PRIMARY_IS_HOME>/repository/conf/` directory.
```

```

To disable the “iat” claim validation, add the following configuration to the **deployment.toml** file.

```
[authentication.authenticator.oidc.parameters]
enableIatValidation = false
```

After adding the configurations, restart the WSO2 IS.

- `iatValidityPeriod` should be in seconds.

- If the `iat` claim validation is enabled in the Primary IS, the token shouldn’t be issued before the specified time.

## Identifying Session Using sub or sid Claim

- Logout token should contain a `sub` claim, an `sid` claim, or both.
- If the logout token contains an `sid` claim, IS will terminate the particular session of the user using the `sid`
  claim. The `sid` claim in the logout token should match to the `sid` claim in the id token received for the current
  session.
- If the logout token only contains a `sub` claim, IS will terminate all the session for that `sub` claim.

## Try it out

Once you have completed configuring WSO2 IS as instructed in the above sections, try out the flow by running the sample
applications.

1. Access the following URL on a browser
   window, [http://localhost.com:8080/pickup-dispatch/](http://localhost.com:8080/pickup-dispatch/)

> 2. Click Login. You will be redirected to the WSO2 Identity Server login page (SecondaryIS - port 9444).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Click **Login**. You will be redirected to the WSO2 Identity Server login page (SecondaryIS - port 9444).
```
